The Tornado Cash developer Alexey Pertsev was unjustly detained in the Netherlands for writing open-source privacy software, highlighting the need for privacy to be baked into cryptocurrency protocols.

tl;dr: Alexey Pertsev, a developer of the Tornado Cash privacy mixer on Ethereum, was detained for 9 months in the Netherlands after the US Treasury sanctioned the protocol. This concerning event emphasizes the need for privacy to be built into cryptocurrency protocols by default. While code is considered free speech in the US, that protection doesn't extend everywhere. Modern-day freedom fighters look like coders working on privacy-enabling software. The push for privacy in crypto continues on both the protocol and application layers.

00:00 - Introduction and Background on Alexey Pertsev's Detainment 
Covers the unjust 9-month detainment of Tornado Cash developer Alexey Pertsev in the Netherlands after the protocol was sanctioned by the US Treasury.

05:39 - Transitioning to Discussion with Guest Will McFallen
Koho shares his perspective that coders working on privacy-enabling software are the modern-day freedom fighters. Introduces Will McFallen who is working on a CoinJoin implementation.

11:49 - Overview and Purpose of Will's CoinJoin SDK Project
Will explains his JavaScript CoinJoin SDK project is meant to enable privacy features in browser, desktop and mobile Dash wallets. 

17:45 - Deep Dive into CoinJoin SDK Technical Details
Will breaks down the networking aspects, progress made so far in implementing the CoinJoin rounds, and demonstrates the working code.

31:03 - Roadmap and Vision for Integrating the CoinJoin SDK 
Discusses potential wallet integrations of the SDK to bring CoinJoin privacy to end users in an accessible way once implementation is complete.

38:06 - Wrapping Up and Looking Ahead to Quarterly Incubator Report
The episode closes with a look ahead to the upcoming quarterly Incubator report marking a transition in strategist funding.

---

[00:00] (upbeat music) What did you do on Wednesday, April 26th, 2023?
[00:05] Well, it may be tough for you or I to pinpoint exactly what unfolded in our world on that date.
[00:09] It is a date that will be remembered by Alexei, or Alex Pirsev,
[00:13] because on that date, he was uncaged. For the first time in nine months,
[00:16] he was able to go home with his partner, Zina Malik, and sleep in his own bed.
[00:20] Last August, on the 10th, to be specific, 29-year-old Pirsev had been snatched up
[00:24] by strangers in the Netherlands. What had Pirsev done, you ask?
[00:28] He had merely written code. Open-source code used to create
[00:30] a decentralized mixing service called Tornado Cash that sought to bring some amount of privacy
[00:35] to the Ethereum blockchain. Bitcoin is really bad on privacy.
[00:39] I think the only people who do it worse, actually, are Ethereum.
[00:42] And for that, he was, and still is, being harassed. He's being told he must wear an ankle monitor,
[00:47] and he is told he will have to appear in court. Mind you, Pirsev is not accused
[00:50] of harming a person or property. Rather, he's accused of helping to create a tool
[00:54] that some bad actors used. There are a lot of neutral tools
[00:58] that can be used by criminals. I mean, just think of the internet.
[01:01] I mean, that's something that's used by criminals every day, but we don't get rid of the internet.
[01:04] So why did some people in the Netherlands decide to target Pirsev?
[01:08] Perhaps as a favor to their friends in D.C.? Because it just so happened
[01:11] that two days before Pirsev was kidnapped, bureaucrats 4,000 miles away in Washington, D.C.,
[01:16] employed at the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a division of the U.S. Treasury's office,
[01:20] added 45 wallet addresses to their specially designated nationals list,
[01:24] which they then claim prohibits 330 million other people, those within the political boundaries of the United States,
[01:30] from engaging with. The wallet addresses were those integral
[01:32] to the operations of Tornado Cash. This specially designated nationals list
[01:36] typically includes individuals, aircraft, and vessels. Listing wallet addresses is fairly new territory.
[01:42] The only related action happened a few months prior when those Treasury employees sanctioned Blender.io.
[01:47] But the targeting of Tornado Cash was new because it is decentralized
[01:50] and relies on code on smart contracts to execute. Almost immediately, centralized entities
[01:55] that had anything to do with the sanctioned Tornado Cash all complied with the dictates
[01:59] of the Treasury office employees. This targeting of a coder and of open source code
[02:03] has not been without pushback. The U.S. House Majority Whip, Tom Emmer,
[02:07] shared his letter that he sent to Treasury head, Janet Yellen, in which he noted that technology is neutral
[02:12] and privacy is normal. Colin Post, writing at The Block,
[02:15] called the targeting of Pirsev and Tornado Cash a major escalation in global enforcement
[02:20] against decentralized protocols. - What's your latest thinking
[02:23] on the sanctioning of Tornado Cash? - I think members of the public, certainly,
[02:30] they don't even know that this happened, but members of the crypto community
[02:35] largely aren't taking this seriously enough. This is absolutely a do or die moment.
[02:40] - In October, the D.C.-based Coin Center filed a lawsuit against what they perceive
[02:43] as an overreach of Treasury office powers. They acknowledged Ethereum's transparent public ledger
[02:48] and the desire of some users to have privacy using Tornado Cash, which nobody controls.
[02:53] Some have framed the actions against Pirsev and Tornado Cash through the lens of free speech.
[02:57] - Ever since the Bernstein v. U.S. hearings of the 1990s, one is protected by the First Amendment
[03:03] when publishing open-source software in the same way one is protected when publishing a book.
[03:08] - But that is not the case in the Netherlands. - Here in the Netherlands, one can actually be detained
[03:12] for writing open-source code that criminals take advantage of.
[03:16] - It's a question whether you can be complicit to a crime, whether you facilitated a crime
[03:21] by writing such an open-source code. - This is undoubtedly why Semenov and Storm,
[03:26] the two other main Tornado Cash developers, have not been targeted,
[03:29] as they reside not in the Netherlands, but within the political boundaries of the U.S.
[03:33] Despite all the saber-rattling and the extended caging, Pirsev has not been charged with a crime.
[03:38] He has merely faced allegations. Though the press release issued by Treasury employees
[03:42] claims that their aim is not to punish, but to bring about a positive change,
[03:45] that seems disingenuous. Indeed, an unnamed top dog at the Treasury
[03:49] was quoted in the Financial Times as stating, "We do believe that this action
[03:53] will send a really critical message to the private sector." In other words, they hope to cause a chilling effect
[03:58] to cause developers to self-censor. A month after Pirsev was encaged,
[04:02] he took the stage briefly at IFDAM. (audience applauding)
[04:07] - Thank you very much. It was so hard time for me.
[04:11] I really appreciate your support. - Where he introduced his lawyer.
[04:17] - There's a misconception that Tornado Cash is aimed at money laundering.
[04:21] I want to make clear from the start that Tornado Cash is a privacy data tool software.
[04:29] - So while some in the space continue to look to the people who are doing the targeting and harassing.
[04:33] - We're hopeful that the courts will see that OFAC did overstep their authority.
[04:41] - Others have suggested a more strike the root route. - You should have levels of privacy protection
[04:47] baked into the protocol. And this prevents the kind of tomfoolery
[04:53] that we see the US government beginning to engage in with things like OFAC and Tornado Cash.
[04:58] - As the transcendentalist Henry David Thoreau encouraged, "Live deliberately."
[05:02] Does it make sense to use the currency that empowers those at the office of the treasury
[05:06] or those that kidnapped and caged and are threatening Pirsev in the Netherlands?
[05:09] Or might it be better for ourselves and all of humanity if we use decentralized options
[05:13] that offer privacy at the protocol level? - The cards are about to fall on the table.
[05:18] We need to be ready. We need to do the best we can to respond to events
[05:23] as they occur and try to make the world a little bit better. (upbeat music)
[05:39] - Hello, and welcome to "Incubator Weekly." That was a relevant newsreel
[05:45] for what we are talking about today. Is it not, Koho Thrine?
[05:48] - Honestly, it makes my blood boil. Everything about this story really pisses me off.
[05:59] I guess I'm just gonna go off on a little tangent here. Not a tangent, but a little rant.
[06:10] This weekend is the 4th of July weekend, Independence Day here in the United States.
[06:17] And it's actually tomorrow, or actually historically, it was the Declaration of Independence was written,
[06:26] I believe, and ratified on the 2nd, which was yesterday. So we sit right here on the 3rd
[06:32] in between the 2nd and the 4th. I'm not a historian, so I don't know all the details
[06:37] behind that 2nd and 4th thing. But the point is, it's a historical weekend
[06:43] that we all celebrate for independence and having the ability to be autonomous human beings
[06:53] that are able to govern themselves. And we talk a lot about, we praise them, right?
[07:03] We look back on our forefathers who fought for independence and we honor them.
[07:11] We have every year since that date. But I wanna say that the modern day soldiers
[07:20] and the modern day freedom fighters do not look like they used to.
[07:25] It used to be, you carried this bayonet or gun and you were out on the battlefield
[07:33] and killing people. That's not what the modern soldier looks like today.
[07:38] The modern soldier looks like a coder, as far as I'm concerned,
[07:42] that is coding and fighting for freedom in on the battlefield that we find ourselves on today.
[07:50] And that is software. So much of our lives is software and technology.
[08:00] And that's where this fight is being fought. And I hope that on a little lighter note,
[08:08] I hope that this didn't totally freak Will out because Will is our guest today.
[08:17] He's the one that's been writing this CoinJoin implementation for JavaScript.
[08:23] And this story of Alex or Alexi or however you say his name, this goes back a year about.
[08:30] And I do believe that I've shared that with Will or at least with some of my team,
[08:36] but hopefully they have a little bit better of an idea. We have the first amendment here in the United States
[08:44] that protects free speech. And as the story told in the intro,
[08:48] writing code is considered free speech. So hopefully, I mean,
[08:54] things always change with politics, right? But hopefully those time honored rights
[09:02] or respected rights, we've always had the right, but at least in the United States,
[09:06] we do tend to respect that at least as the first amendment is written.
[09:12] We'll see if it continues to be enforced like that where we have the right to write free,
[09:19] freedom creating software, and that's protected under free speech.
[09:25] But I guess we'll see, but yeah, let's bring on Will. He's one of our modern day soldiers here
[09:32] fighting the good fight of freedom without even really knowing it.
[09:36] I mean, you don't have to necessarily have that as your goal.
[09:43] I think Will is pretty mild mannered guy that just wants to write cool software.
[09:48] But unfortunately, we're put in a position these days where that can get you just doing something good
[09:58] for the world can get you thrown in a cage on very rare instances.
[10:02] So with that, I guess, welcome Will. - Thanks for having me.
[10:06] No, I mean, I've heard a couple things thrown around when it comes to CoinJoint and Privatesyn.
[10:14] And I think the flaw is that these distributed ledgers just aren't centralized around privacy.
[10:24] I could figure out what you did. I can figure out who you paid.
[10:28] I think when Edward Snowden was saying in that video, he said, "Privacy must be baked into the protocol."
[10:36] And that seems like the last thing that was baked in. - Yeah, it was the last thing
[10:44] that was baked into the Bitcoin protocol. And Dash came around and tried to fix some of that
[10:50] with the Privatesyn feature that we have, which is now rebranded and called just CoinJoint.
[10:55] But it's got a long ways to go. And I think the work that you're doing
[11:01] to bring this into JavaScript and the work that AJ is doing
[11:08] with trying to make some of these transactions just default to a Privatesyn-like transaction
[11:18] is going to go a long way with that. So there's a lot more to say about the work that AJ is doing
[11:24] but let's focus on the work that you're doing. You're bringing the traditional CoinJoint implementation
[11:32] into JavaScript, sorry, the traditional CoinJoint protocol into a JavaScript implementation.
[11:43] So did you have any other leading questions before we get to that?
[11:49] So Will's demo, Amanda, or should we jump right in? - I do want to see the demo and the slides.
[11:56] And first, I just want to be clear on this library. Is this intended for its first use to be seen
[12:03] in the forthcoming incubator web wallet or is this for something else?
[12:08] - Yeah, I don't think that it's necessarily going to, it depends on how quickly we get it done, I guess.
[12:17] But I don't see it as being part of the first implementation of the web wallet
[12:22] but that is the purpose is our web wallet is going to be a JavaScript library.
[12:29] So it's a JavaScript library that can be brought into a browser application.
[12:37] So that can then be used with technologies like Ionic or Atari that can be used
[12:45] to create user interfaces on both the browser and mobile wallet and desktop wallet.
[12:54] So we can then use the same wallet to target all the different platforms.
[13:02] And so we can have a wallet that is unified in its user experience but across the different platforms.
[13:12] And the nice thing is that's what we're doing with this, the CoinJoin thing.
[13:18] When you bring that protocol into JavaScript then you can use that in any of those targets.
[13:25] So we can have a web app or a mobile app or a desktop app that all support CoinJoin.
[13:35] - Okay, all right, we better have a look. Will, would you like to do the slides first?
[13:40] - Sure, let's do that. - Let's do it.
[13:43] - All right. Okay, so my name's William McFallin.
[13:49] I am a senior full stack web developer. I am a systems development specialist and a DevOps guru.
[13:58] Essentially, I just love writing great software. Dash has given me the opportunity to do that
[14:04] and today I will be presenting the progress we've made on a CoinJoin SDK.
[14:13] A little bit about myself. Obviously, I said I was a full stack web developer
[14:19] but I also do C++ and I also enjoy writing network protocols.
[14:25] That's something that kind of appealed to me with this particular project.
[14:30] You know, CoinJoin requires me to look at how to write networking code.
[14:35] Not so much reverse engineering but a lot of it was, you know, kind of diving deep into like the C++ code
[14:43] that Dash Core consists of. But you can find me on GitHub or Twitter
[14:51] under my username, W. McFallin. And I will, let's see, we'll talk about where we left off.
[14:59] So, a couple weeks ago, we had the idea of creating a CoinJoin wallet that would exist in the browser SDK.
[15:09] We soon found out that we would need a node portion. So, we have a browser portion and then a node portion
[15:21] that kind of supports anything that a mobile or desktop or web wallet would need to do.
[15:31] - And when you said node in this context, you mean Node.js, right?
[15:36] - Node.js, yeah. So, we're essentially taking like the majority
[15:43] of the networking code that's in Dash Core, which has, you know, been, I mean, it hasn't been extracted
[15:54] and put into its own library. We're essentially doing that.
[15:58] And we're gonna allow other people to, if they want to, they can host it,
[16:03] they can modify it however much they want, but it'll be just its own little package
[16:07] that people can utilize. So, we do have a Node.js SDK.
[16:16] It'll do all the interaction with the peer-to-peer network. This project cannot just be a browser thing.
[16:24] It has to incorporate a browser, but it also has to incorporate Node.js.
[16:30] We are really close right now. The server-side SDK, which is ran in Node.js,
[16:42] it can connect to a master node. It can authenticate just like a full node.
[16:48] So, think of, you know, any wallet that you've used. A lot of them are supported by a full node.
[16:57] We can do that, and we can initiate CoinJoin traffic. Not only can we initiate CoinJoin traffic,
[17:04] we're very close to completing a full mixing round. The various steps in the CoinJoin mixing ground
[17:18] includes a lot of messages, call it, or they're all prefixed with ds,
[17:25] which I believe is dark sen, but they never went back and changed those.
[17:32] So, a lot of these things, even though it probably should be cj
[17:35] for CoinJoin or ps or whatever, it's all ds stuff.
[17:39] So, it's synonymous with CoinJoin and private sen. - All right.
[17:45] - There are, depending on which page you look at, there's, like, on the Dash Core Readme,
[17:53] there are 11 steps, but a lot of those steps include
[17:57] things the master node has to do. So, in reality,
[18:02] we're at, like, the last step. And to put it into, like, a good analogy,
[18:10] I would say, if this were the Super Bowl, it would be the last 30 seconds of the fourth quarter.
[18:16] That's how close we are to finishing a full mixing round. - You said last step,
[18:23] but your slide says eight out of 11, and I think that's because step eight is the last step
[18:29] that we have to do on our side, the client side, and steps 10 and 11 are done by the master node.
[18:36] - Correct. - Is that correct?
[18:38] - Yeah, yeah. So, our last hurdle right now
[18:43] is just signing the transactions in a way that the master node accepts.
[18:49] You actually see in the demonstration that I give that it actually accepts all the inputs that we give it.
[18:56] And more on that, I'll give more on that later, once I show it to you,
[19:01] but we are so ridiculously close. So, this is how the handshake works.
[19:12] Again, like, the numbers are different depending on where you look.
[19:18] This actually doesn't include steps eight, nine, 10, 11. They're actually numbered weird.
[19:27] We are essentially at the last step between the node and the master node.
[19:35] The next step after that would be the master node broadcasting to the network,
[19:39] which is step seven. Just a quick refresher.
[19:46] - You probably said this, but those steps are differently labeled, I guess.
[19:50] - Yeah. - Okay, gotcha.
[19:52] - Yeah. I'm gonna go over the packet types real quick.
[19:59] DSA, when you see, when you join a queue, you're gonna see something that says DSA accept
[20:06] is compatible, please submit. What that's saying is,
[20:08] yes, we would love to start a mixing session. Please submit your denominations.
[20:15] Steps two and three is a DSQ message, mostly. That's when you, when the master node has at least,
[20:26] so depending on the network, it's at least three, four mainnet and testnet, I believe.
[20:33] Once it has that many and then it can't find any more, it'll start with mixing, which is step four,
[20:44] which says, okay, you've accepted me into this queue. I have a bunch of inputs I wanna mix.
[20:54] Let me send to you. You'll see, you know, adding entry one of 20
[20:59] and depending on which entry you are, that's prone to change.
[21:05] Steps five, six, and seven, the DSF message is something that
[21:14] the master node will respond with. It'll say, okay, I've mixed all,
[21:19] or I've mixed everything that you've given to me. Let's sign it and you'll see finalized transactions,
[21:27] relay final transaction. The step that we're on right now is,
[21:35] well, we finished the DSS step. We just have to send it back to the master node
[21:40] and you'll see similar messages, like finalized transactions.
[21:45] Steps nine, 10, and 11, they're all the master node, essentially.
[21:52] The 11th step, which is get data, that's actually an optional step.
[21:57] And the dash core read me actually says, yeah, you don't have to send get data,
[22:02] but if you wanted to, you can optionally do that. And yeah, so I guess I will present
[22:11] this JavaScript library, see where we've gotten so far. Let me share my screen.
[22:19] - Okay. - And I'm not sure if it's in your demo or not,
[22:25] but let's take a look at the code repos that you're working with,
[22:30] just so people can look at that and see what you're doing, see if they can help, see.
[22:35] Yeah. - Okay.
[22:38] - What, just maybe give us a repo name and after your demo, of course.
[22:46] - Okay, okay. So, can you guys see my terminal here?
[22:51] - Yes. - Launch, okay.
[22:53] - I have a very nice Star Wars theme I see you've got going here.
[22:57] (laughing) - Yeah, for sure.
[23:00] Okay, so this is a launcher script. What it does is it launches three instances.
[23:10] There are gonna be three connections that connect to the same master node.
[23:17] They're gonna send their inputs and everything. So, when you see something like,
[23:22] Luke sends a DSS message or Chewy or Honda, those are just easy to remember names for each instance.
[23:33] And I'll go for, so we do have a log file, which I'll just reset for now.
[23:44] So, when I launched this, it creates three different users
[23:49] with the three different wallets. You get a lot of, a lot of debugging text.
[23:57] What this means is that Chewy has been accepted into a queue.
[24:06] You'll see that three times. Let's see here.
[24:13] Coin join is collateral valid. So, you'll see this stuff.
[24:18] So, let me highlight it with my mouse. So, DSA accept is compatible.
[24:24] Please accept. What that means is Chewy submitted,
[24:30] it says he wanted to mix 0.001 denominations. He sent one as well as a collateral transaction.
[24:48] That's what this message says. And that'll happen three different times.
[24:52] So, now we have, we go back. We have Han, Luke and Chewy.
[25:01] All three got accepted into the mixing queue. - Just one quick question before you keep going.
[25:10] - Sure. - To be clear, this is, you basically set up scripts
[25:15] to create all of this on the regression test network, reg test.
[25:22] This is not test net, as we know it. This is not main net.
[25:27] This is a local reg test, right? - Right.
[25:31] - Network. - Yeah.
[25:33] - And there was a lot of work getting that going, as I remember.
[25:36] - Yeah. - Like creating all the private key, public key pairs,
[25:41] denominating, pre-denominating the coins so you don't have to have that,
[25:48] 'cause that's required as part of the program, as part of the protocol to have those pre-denominated coins.
[25:56] - Yeah. So, to add on to that,
[26:01] this actually gives us a little bit more flexibility as far as, I know Amanda was saying prior to the show
[26:09] that she would like a different way of how we handle denominations.
[26:15] The way I built it, you know, whatever denominations you send me
[26:20] is what I'm gonna be sending through. However which way you want to cut it up and present it,
[26:27] you know, it's completely up to the client library. So I think there's a lot of flexibility with that.
[26:33] - Mm-hmm. - Okay, so this actually shows that,
[26:39] also let's go all the way back up. So we have HAN update accepted, accepting entries.
[26:47] What that means is we've sent the transaction inputs. They were accepted by the masternode.
[26:58] It mixed it, and then this signing accepted means that it did the mixing process.
[27:07] We sent, we signed off on that. And then the masternode, it's up to them as far as,
[27:15] so this is essentially the last step. And we can go and look at the traffic here.
[27:27] This is the masternode traffic, which has, let's see here.
[27:37] So we add scripts and enter it. It verifies all the scripts, add script,
[27:45] verifies scripts, successfully validated input and input script.
[27:49] And yeah, so this is the last step. This is all working on a reg test network.
[27:58] To make it work on testnet or mainnet, we just simply have to change a config file setting,
[28:05] that's it, and then attach another wallet to it. But this is, yeah, this is where we're at.
[28:16] And I think we'll be completing a mixing round within a few days from now.
[28:23] But yeah, that's what we got so far. - Nice, so this is, what you're looking at here
[28:32] is this would be the logs that you might see if you were to, if you had,
[28:41] if you were running a masternode, even on testnet or mainnet,
[28:44] and you said, print out all the logs, this is what you'd see.
[28:48] So these are logs that are created by the C++ code, right? - Right.
[28:53] - Yeah, cool. So the last step, you said you'll be able to get that soon.
[29:01] So the quote unquote soon. Do you have any kind of timeframe about when you think,
[29:11] once you've completed one round of mixing, it's just a matter of doing it over and over again
[29:19] to create multiple rounds, and then we're essentially done.
[29:22] So after that, what does the roadmap look like? - For this portion, it would just be to hook it up
[29:30] to whatever front-end wallets that we'd like to integrate with.
[29:37] There shouldn't be too much else besides finishing the mixing round,
[29:43] 'cause then we could just essentially run it in a loop, you know, and it can be very,
[29:49] you know, kind of, there doesn't have to be a ton of monitoring going on,
[29:57] you know, it's just, it should mimic in a way how Dash Core does CoinJoin,
[30:05] in the sense that if you wanted to, you could just say, okay, start, and then just let it run.
[30:12] But if somebody wanted more fine-grain control over how, you know, denominations are created,
[30:20] or, you know, a lot of that can be up to the user. It's just a matter of, you know,
[30:27] how much do they wanna control? - Yeah, and we'll make that all on the incubator side,
[30:35] so we're not expecting users to have to do their own denominating and all that stuff.
[30:41] So, yeah, that'll be part of a task, a separate task on the browser side,
[30:46] or the client side for the wallet to make those denominations.
[30:53] And I think we've got Jordan that's gonna be working on that with you.
[30:57] So, yeah, it seems to be all coming together, just need a little bit more time.
[31:03] Any other questions, Amanda? - Did you wanna take a peek at the repos,
[31:09] or sorry, did you do that when I was offline there? - Yeah, let's take a look at those.
[31:16] - So, I would take a look at -hive, look for -join.js. These are the pull requests.
[31:34] The code is all under alpha v1. And we have a nice readme of everything we've done so far
[31:46] and what we've accomplished. We haven't fully merged anything into main
[31:53] until, you know, a solid alpha has been released, and we've all tested it.
[31:58] But I can tweet this, or I can just send it here in the chat for now.
[32:06] But, yeah, so this is where it's at. We don't have any official releases yet,
[32:13] 'cause we're just waiting to finish this current piece, and then--
[32:16] - Do you see the question from Shenmick on the screen there? He says, I'll read it out,
[32:24] why the code base was split into client side/backend side? What parts actually prevent implementing it fully
[32:35] as a client side in the browser? So, can you answer that question?
[32:37] - Oh, yeah. So--
[32:40] - My guess is it has something to do with networking. - Yeah.
[32:47] Yeah, so the browser, if we were to do it purely in the browser,
[32:51] then the browser would have to implement, essentially, TCP sockets,
[32:58] which it can't do now. I don't know of any browser that can do TCP sockets.
[33:06] It can do HTTP requests, HTTPS requests. It can do WebSocket requests,
[33:14] but none of the kind of fundamental TCP socket traffic, it can't do that.
[33:23] So we had to add a Node.js portion there. There's kind of no way around that.
[33:31] I would be stoked to see that supported in a browser, even if it's just one browser,
[33:39] 'cause that would kind of... You can make this a pure browser only SDK,
[33:45] if that were the case. - Yeah, so maybe in the future,
[33:49] if browser vendors start supporting low-level TCP packets, if that's what I understood,
[33:57] then we could modify this so that it could be just
[34:00] a purely browser-side implementation. But that's the trade-off that we had to do,
[34:06] or not the trade-off, but that was the constraint that we had to work within,
[34:09] and so we split it to two different sides. But the important thing here is I think
[34:19] there will be that browser SDK so that any JavaScript wallet
[34:25] that wanted to implement Coin.join could just import this SDK,
[34:30] and then now you've got Coin.join. - Right.
[34:38] - Question for the end, just in case, I guess, this is what I see.
[34:42] Is a web wallet what's needed to make the phone wallet mix?
[34:46] A phone wallet, so basically, is what we're doing, making the web wallet,
[34:54] something that will make a mobile wallet support mixing? I think that's the question,
[35:02] and the answer is yes. So there are different ways.
[35:07] Dash Core Group has their mobile wallets, and those mobile wallets are native iOS and Android wallets,
[35:21] meaning they're written in Swift or Objective-C and Java or Kotlin.
[35:31] And that's how they implement their mobile wallets, and I think that there will be a governance question.
[35:40] I saw a poll about it from Joelle about whether we should have BCG's mobile wallets
[35:49] support Coinjoin, and I think that they're already starting on that,
[35:54] but that's kind of a question that the network will be able to vote on this cycle,
[36:00] as far as I know, could be next cycle. I don't know when Joelle's gonna put
[36:04] that governance question in, but we're gonna be working in parallel
[36:09] for this JavaScript SDK, so that mobile wallets that are built using JavaScript
[36:16] and those technologies that I mentioned earlier on in the show, such as Ionic or Capacitor or...
[36:24] I don't recall the other one right off of Atari. There are others as well.
[36:32] There are older ones as well, older technologies that convert JavaScript codebases into different platforms.
[36:40] So we do plan on doing that, and then like I've mentioned in some of the Maya shows,
[36:45] I'd like to combine this idea with exchanging between different other coins
[36:54] to have mixing as a service for a coin like Bitcoin, for example.
[37:03] So you deposit your Bitcoin into the web app, not deposit in the sense that you're giving up control,
[37:10] but just putting it into the mobile wallet, into the web app.
[37:14] And then it converts it over to Dash, mixes it, converts it back into Bitcoin,
[37:18] and then now you have more private Bitcoin. So that's something that's on the roadmap as well,
[37:24] but this is a prerequisite to both of those applications. - Groovy.
[37:30] Okay, well, was there anything else that we should see or talk about, Will, or does that about cover it for us?
[37:36] - I mean, yeah, that's all I've got for now. And I can field any more questions if anybody has something.
[37:45] - Okay, well, I think that's all the questions we've had so far.
[37:48] So thanks for joining us today, Will. Good topic for a good time.
[37:55] And we look forward to, I mean, it looks like you're on the home stretch here,
[38:00] and we look forward to seeing it ready to go. - Sounds good.
[38:06] - Yeah, so next week we have our, we have our quarterly report, right, Amanda?
[38:14] - That's right, yep. So same time as usual, but it will be, as Ryan said,
[38:20] the quarterly report for the second quarter of this year. And of significance is that it will be the final report
[38:28] of the, I guess, what could be called the legacy funding model of the incubator so far,
[38:33] which is where all strategist budgets come from a single proposal payout.
[38:40] And as we discussed on the show last week, things will change up a bit in the future
[38:46] in that individual strategists currently associated with the incubator,
[38:51] or even just people who aren't currently associated with the incubator, but who want to come on
[38:56] as a strategist/project manager will be making their own decisions
[39:04] on that. I'm not sure if it's frozen on my end or everybody's end,
[39:15] but-- - It looks like she's frozen, yeah.
[39:17] - Okay, yeah, so, yeah, next month, next quarter, meaning this coming week, we'll,
[39:25] you'll see three different proposals from the incubator, one from each strategist requesting the funds
[39:31] that they need to complete their, complete and start new projects
[39:37] that they're thinking about under their strategy.