https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fLo_wQlqU4A

Anthony walks through the Dash Platform JavaScript SDK documentation, running example code and noting areas for improvement.

tl;dr: In this solo coding session, Anthony goes through the Dash Platform JavaScript SDK documentation, running the provided code examples and making notes on what works, what doesn't, and how the docs could be improved. He starts with basic curl requests, moves on to using the SDK methods, and troubleshoots various issues along the way. Anthony highlights the need for clearer and more up-to-date examples, consistent use of require vs ESM syntax, and consolidating information spread across multiple sites/repos. His goal is to get fully working examples that can eventually be integrated into a React app.

00:00 - Introduction and setup 
Anthony introduces the stream and sets up his coding environment.

03:51 - Running basic curl examples
Anthony starts by running the basic curl request examples from the docs, explaining core blockchain concepts along the way.

14:02 - Transitioning to JavaScript examples
Moves on to the JavaScript examples, noting outdated libraries and inconsistent require/import syntax that need updating.

24:00 - Writing and testing custom examples
Anthony writes his own JavaScript examples based on the curl requests to better understand how the endpoints work.

31:36 - Exploring the API reference docs
Digs into the API reference looking for a complete list of available SDK methods. 

40:28 - Comparing different doc sources
Compares and contrasts the SDK documentation found in the main docs vs. external sites and repos.

50:58 - Attempting to run dashboard-evo examples 
Tries running examples from the dashevo NPM package, troubleshooting dependency and import issues.

1:01:58 - Figuring out correct SDK initialization
Realizes the issue was initializing the SDK client incorrectly and finally gets a successful API response.

1:10:08 - Stream wrap-up
Summarizes learnings, outlines next steps, and wraps up the stream.

---

[00:00] All right, hello. We are live. What's up everybody? My name is Anthony Campolo. I'm coming at you from four different places right now. I'm coming from my Twitch YouTube and Dash's
[00:23] Twitch end YouTube. So if people saw me on Monday, I was on the Dash channel with Ryan and Amanda and we were talking about what I'm going to be kind of doing for the Dash
[00:40] incubator and it's going to be building out some cool JavaScript stuff. It's going to be fairly kind of like off the cuff coding stuff and real quick, I'm just going to make
[00:56] sure I'm actually coming in good. Yep, I can hear myself there. Great. All right. And I'm just going to have to make sure I position this so that I can see the comments. That's
[01:14] the only thing. So let me go ahead and, oh, let's see if I can screen share. Sweet. Okay. Hello, learner. What is up? You're the first guest on this fun new stream we'll be doing.
[01:39] Okay. That's probably pretty good. So great. I was actually playing around a bit with the Dash docs and trying to get a feel for, you know, how they work and kind of what state
[02:00] they're in. Especially in terms of the JavaScript SDK. So this is something that is always a challenge with JavaScript. You will frequently have different versions of node, different
[02:18] versions of require versus import. And a lot of confusion there. You also now have this problem with fetch where you may be using an older fetch library. Like one of the examples
[02:34] in here is using request. Which is something that I didn't even know about. It's a deprecated fetch library that was not node fetch. So node fetch is like, I don't know if it's deprecated
[02:47] or not, but it's something that people are now moving off of because fetch is just in node now. But I want to get to a couple different docs. I want the dash.org docs. And developers,
[03:09] developer portal. Okay. Because here's where they give you a lot of the stuff I'll actually be doing. There's a couple things in here also that did not work. So a couple things
[03:23] that I kind of wanted to do. Eventually the point is going to be getting to actually building like React apps and stuff like that. But before you can even do that, you want your JavaScript
[03:36] general stuff to work. So I usually go in a couple steps here. I start by just trying to get something to work with just like a cURL command. Let me just open up what we
[03:50] got here. Nice and big. Okay. Great, great, great. Okay. So for example... There's one cURL command that I had for... Here we go. This is on. Okay. So I like starting
[04:34] off like something here where you can just run a cURL command and get a response back. This is like the simplest, most basic way to interact with an endpoint or an API. Right?
[04:45] You hit a URL. Yes. Either get it or you post it usually. And an example like this. So this is a blockchain. How much you know about blockchain or not is going to depend on whether you're
[05:02] someone who is coming at this from the Dash channel or the AJC channel. Because most of my followers and friends and people who tend to watch my content are less blockchain oriented,
[05:16] even though I spent close to a year working at a blockchain company. But I actually really enjoyed it. I ended up getting out of blockchain just because I got an opportunity at this
[05:30] company, Egeo. I wanted to do that instead. But I actually think the technology has a lot of promise, even though people think it's kind of quote unquote over, thanks to the
[05:41] whole blow up last year. But these things, they go in cycles. Like we had ups and downs in the past. And each time it came back up again. Even higher than the time before it.
[05:53] So if history repeats itself, we will be here again in 2024, 25, 26. Hard to say. But with this example here. So it's curl command. We're sending a post. We're sending a post to this
[06:15] endpoint. The testnets are a little interesting. I was having issues with them at first. That chat GBT helped me figure out. Because some sort of TLS, SSL encryption thing that was
[06:32] throwing errors. If we find that in examples as we go, I'll kind of point it out. And then you set the header to JSON. And this is a JSON RPC, which is the way that a lot of developers
[06:46] interact with these blockchains. You have just like data that you post to an endpoint. And then you specify a method. And then if there's like the specific JSON RPC API. There's
[07:03] a version. These are the version. And then if there's any parameters. So in this one, this is get best block hash. Not sure. Let's see what the ID. Differentials the same endpoint.
[07:21] Yes, I'm a little confused with the ideas for. But for. Let's see. So yeah, so for this one, get block hash, you have set a parameter. And so this is like, what is the block hash
[07:38] you actually want to get back? Yeah, and so with any of these things, you have. All right, cool. We haven't missed much so far. But once you catch up to me, I will have some questions
[08:07] for you. And if you wanted to hop on, actually feel free to join and then just hit me up in the comments so I know and I can just add you to the stream. So what I was going to
[08:23] do is anytime I kind of want to figure out how to work with an endpoint and get to the state where I can actually do stuff with it in a JavaScript project, I start with a curl
[08:33] command like this. And now with dash, there is a dash JavaScript library. And these client libraries are usually useful because they allow you to not have to worry about just
[08:48] making a straight up fetch request yourself, okay, give you something nicer and more integrated to do it. Hey, what's up, Nicky T. I'll be curious if you find any of this stuff interesting
[09:02] as I know you're not a very big blockchain developer, but I also know you're open minded and like to learn. So that is a good thing. But so saying we we usually have the ability
[09:16] to bring in some sort of JavaScript library, like so you bring in dash, and then you initialize a dash client, and then you will just have like methods on it. And when I was doing this,
[09:34] I hit a couple weird things. First off, it's not entirely clear what version you should be on because if you go to that's first off, that's not good. So that just, um, being down.
[10:00] So if you go to the, I want to go to the GitHub for it. There is a GitHub for it somewhere. GitHub dash was deprecated. I guess. Okay. Okay, so this is not, it's not, I don't think
[10:40] this is not it at all. Here we go. This is what I want. Okay. So this is the dash hive. This is Ryan. So this is where you actually get the SDK. That's not it, actually. There's
[11:17] a link in the docs here. This is a link. There we go. Okay. Here we go. This is what I want. So let me start grabbing links to make sure I can save these places. Okay. So SDK. Okay.
[12:14] This is, this is great. This is actually I think what I wasn't able to find yesterday. Not that I was able to find it, but the, so there's this huge problem with general blockchain
[12:27] projects, which is that they're very decentralized. It's like part of the whole point. But sometimes you end up with a lot of different documentation and GitHub repos and GitHub organizations.
[12:40] And so like, this is dash pay. So that's different from dash hive when we were looking at before. And then with the docs, I was saying, you know, you have these docs here. We also had
[12:54] the, there's like a different kind of docs here, docs.dash.org. And actually, um, Dan Tan did a stream on this already, um, docs for roasting. So this is him kind of talking
[13:17] more structurally about the docs. And I imagine he gave a lot of that feedback about making sure it's clear where you need to go to find things. And then where said things are actually
[13:32] defined. So as I was going through this last night, I was just trying out different examples and looking at different repos and it wasn't always clear what was actually supported and
[13:47] official. And so these GitHub read me's right here that go along with the code you're actually installing on MPM. That's what's really important. I'll make sure it's at least syncing up there
[14:02] or else you're going to end up a lot of weirdness happening because there's also can tell if it was supposed to be dash or dash JSA. That's because I was looking at one of the wrong
[14:13] packages before. But this is definitely the right stuff now. Okay, cool. So with this, you have dash client methods, but what I had also done, uh, I think I want to move this.
[14:35] This is my usual, my usual setup. Boom. Except this is, yeah, usually this is on the other side of the screen. That's why it's throwing me off. Okay. Now we're good. Okay. So there's
[14:59] straight up request. Then there's using a client library, but the client library ever doesn't work. It's good to be able to just make a straight up fetch request and know
[15:10] how to do that. So I have some examples that I'll write out that are like this where you just have a JavaScript function that runs a fetch method, feeds it the end point, and
[15:25] then sets the, all of the body stuff just straight up in JSON here. Then you can console log the results. So that's kind of like the different ways you can start working with
[15:42] the end point and figure out how do you interact with it. And this is all just through this JSON RPC. It's all pretty much the same. You have an end point that you're posting to and
[15:52] you're hitting it with some stuff. So let's take a look at, so I wanted to just basically go through a whole bunch of the examples that are in the docs and see where they break and
[16:09] make some notes. And then that'll be useful for the, any other people who happen to end up on these docs and may not know what's happening. There's also some places where it will probably
[16:21] make sense to just rewrite the example entirely, especially the ones that are using requests as a clearly deprecated library. So that's not something that should probably be in use.
[16:34] So this is, this is what I'm talking about, this example right here. So this is using request. So NPM request, HTTP request. So boom, right at the top. This package has been
[16:49] deprecated and published three years ago as of February 11, 2020, before even my boot camp a long time ago. So don't really want super old deprecated libraries in your docs
[17:03] for obvious reasons. But thankfully I will be able to rewrite it with a slightly less deprecated library because NodeFetch, not necessarily deprecated, in fact it's not deprecated
[17:21] at all. It's the update of the last two months. But version two docs are the ones that actually work and version two is the, what actually works with ESM. So that's another thing. If
[17:38] you look at these examples, they're all written with require versus imports. And so this is where, again, you find these old examples, things can be really confusing because you
[17:55] may have some things in require, but you need to have the ESM, especially if the goal is to eventually get this into something that's going to work in a React component because
[18:03] React tends to be using ESM at this point. You can probably do require with React, honestly. Why not? But you'd be way out of step with the current versions of React, how everyone
[18:16] writes React, everyone's going to be using ESM in any current React example you see. So the places I wanted to hit, so this is the very, very first example for JavaScript
[18:34] connect-platform. So let me close that guy. Okay. So this is the curl request for this, let's see. Hold on. That's back here. Okay. Here is... I'm not sure what happened there.
[19:19] Okay. Anyway, let's just do this. So... Okay. There we go. Dash connect. So let me grab this. So what I always do when I'm doing this kind of stuff is and this is going to be one
[20:06] of the things with these streams is this will be more so me kind of working through just like how I actually do this and less me like building something before the stream and then
[20:15] presenting it to people, which is what I do for a lot of my streams. Usually this is giving more so me like how do I go through docs and try examples and troubleshoot them and then
[20:26] potentially upstream changes if I think things are broken or unclear. And then as I'm doing that, I'm basically writing docs as I'm doing it both for myself so I can kind of make sense
[20:38] of what's actually happening as I'm doing it and it's more easy to give that feedback or if I want it to end up as a blog post or if I'm trying to just build a new example,
[20:49] I'll still go through this project. So essentially everything I ever build has a tutorial attached to it just because it's how I kind of think through this stuff. It helps me concretize
[20:58] every single step. So yeah. And then it's going to have an outline. So let me just take what I've got right now already. And we'll run through kind of each example. So we'll
[21:33] start with this one. Usually resources will go at the end, but I'll keep it at the top for now. All right. Project dash platform. Get best block hash.
[22:17] Okay. So I'm going to go ahead and run this. Okay. So I'm going to run this. Okay. So I'm going to go ahead and run this. Okay. So basically the structure of what's happening
[23:08] right now is I'll start by building a project from scratch and even like showing how do you actually even get a package.json and the dependencies into your project. Because you'll
[23:18] notice here this example just says npm install dash. Like great. Npm install dash into what? So I think that this is a step that sometimes are left out, but it's kind of really important,
[23:32] especially if you're dealing with stuff like this. If you're dealing with whether it's going to be require or import, you need to know do you need to set type to module and
[23:41] all this stuff that goes along with that. So since I think the goal should always be to end up at ESM because eventually in 20 years or right before the heat death of the
[23:53] universe, they will probably stop using require. And it's just better to be on ESM because then it'll be easier to integrate with newer tools like Vite. And right now I think this
[24:05] tells you to use node 12. You should not be using node 12. If you're someone writing nodes still, I think that's considered off of long term support by now, which means you don't
[24:19] really have a lot of good guarantees around a lot of stuff. I mean, I think they'll still fix security vulnerabilities. But yeah, exactly. Yeah, security issue. So you want stuff to
[24:34] be on the newer versions of node if you ever can. I think I'll be running node 16 right now. Yeah, because node 18 might have some breaking stuff. But if you notice, so I like
[24:52] to actually include all the steps. So let's do this. So I want to keep this around. Get rid of that. And then I'll run through these commands. So into it, I'll be using pnpm for
[25:27] this. Nikki T, since you are still around and watching, I'm curious, have you ever written any code at all related to any of this blockchain web3 type stuff? Or even like had a sense
[25:40] of like how you would interact with it through like JSON RPC methods and stuff like that? So this is something that I did not know at all, even though I've been following crypto
[25:50] for many years. It wasn't until I started working for Quicknode that I really learned like how to actually interact with a blockchain. What is, you know, the blockchain is currently
[25:59] running in production and how they work. Because Quicknode, actually pretty cool. Don't do that. Pretty cool company that hosts blockchain nodes for you. So if you wanted to interact
[26:18] with Ethereum, you can see how to do that through all of their methods here. And their documentation is actually really fantastic. So if you go to this one, you'll see they
[26:34] have similar type deal or got like a crew request here that is sending some data. And you can also see they have JavaScript examples as well. And so what was I saying? Anyway,
[27:08] so npm init and then. Let's pull this back over now. Okay, clean up some tabs real quick. Tutorials. Okay. Okay. So. I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the read me. Whoops.
[27:56] This should be outside of here. I can have just one thing open. I'm going to do this from the terminal here. And if we look here, I have my npm, pnpm auto configured to do
[28:38] this. When most people run this command, it will not do this. And that can be an issue if you want to use imports. And so this can be changed to type common JS. And yeah, so
[29:00] that's where some of the challenges come into play. You have to kind of just play around and see whether you need to have the type module set or not. And especially once you
[29:09] get into tools like V in the front end, then things are also a little bit different. But now we want to pnpm add dash. So as you see here, just dash no JS. And then if we look
[29:28] at this example and try and run it, I've got it written right here. I think it's the same XML type. That's useful. Ryan, have you caught up yet? If so, let me know. I think this ends
[30:09] up just hanging for a while. That will be the ESM. But for now, let's take these off. And run this. Oh, wait. It worked. Huh. Sweet. That's good. Cool. So if we see here, we got
[31:00] -- this came out. So that's doing this part. And then new line. Okay. So let's try this then. Great. So there you go. That's all you got to do to switch between require and ESM.
[31:36] You add type module to your package.json. And then you import blank from blank, whatever this was becomes that. Whatever this was becomes that. There you go. If only it were that simple
[31:51] all the time. So just go ahead and delete that. And then what it tells you to do next is you can connect to DevNet and you can connect via address or via seed. Yeah. I'm not sure
[32:30] if this is really super duper relevant. Okay. This is what I was trying to do before. This is connected directly to GAPI. Okay. So I'm gonna not worry about that one. What was that
[32:58] other command I had before? This is a good one. I want to save this one. So that's basically get best block hash. That's what we were doing in this example here. Get best block hash.
[33:35] What does that mean? Best block hash. Check the API. So this is the page I'm gonna end up on a lot, I think. Okay. So get best block hash returns the block hash of the chain tip
[34:01] ID or chain tip. That would be ID twice. So let's do this. Let's close that for now. And since this has no parameters, it's fairly straightforward in terms of how you interact
[34:32] with it. You're not gonna be like passing anything into it. You just literally run that method and then it's gonna give you back the block hash of the chain tip. Let's see if
[34:43] I can find chain tip anywhere. That would probably be in the dash core docs. I guess that's just like the current block, like whatever the latest block is right now. If you don't
[35:09] know blockchain, you have blocks in a chain. Whoa. And you add a block every some amount of time. And every time you do that has all the transactions from the last 10, 15 minutes,
[35:25] some amount of time. So I'm just gonna assume that's what it means until someone tells me otherwise. Okay. So I had the curl example, which was this. And that's this. I'm gonna
[35:47] do this by method. So... Okay. So... Okay. So... Okay. So... Okay. So... Okay. So... Okay. Yeah, for now, I'm gonna ignore these different ways to connect. This is not super important
[36:44] right now, I don't think. Okay. Cool. So this will have get block hash, get best block hash, get block by height. So those are more of the other client methods. Okay. Cool. Let's
[37:27] just keep going from where I am right now. And let's delete this. Keep that. Okay. Cool. So what I'm doing now is I'm basically building up different files that will have self contained
[37:57] node scripts and then that can be run from the command line. So the idea being that you build up from first you have a curl command. And so that curl command, like literally anyone
[38:07] could just copy paste this sucker and run it in their terminal and should get a response back. Which I should have. I'll put right after it. So grab that. And then this way,
[38:25] as you're going from the different steps, people can kind of make sure that everything's working. So in this kind of like baseline case, you're just like, all right, am I able
[38:35] to even hit the end point and get something back? Because then as soon as you introduce JavaScript stuff and you're already in the realm of okay, what did they get their pirates
[38:45] on JSON right? Was there a version of node on their own individual machine? And so that's the stuff that then you need to kind of work through step by step. So grab all of these.
[39:01] And so I already have this example and that's already working. Good. Okay. So this is what this should have been called actually. Okay. And then for now we'll call the other one.
[39:57] Cool. So let's do that one now. And so I'm pretty sure this has been the case for a while. So I think it's still the case that you need to specify you want version 2 of node fetch
[40:23] or else you get weird ESM issues. And now if we take stuff here. And then the thing that I had to ask chat GVT to help me with was let me show you this. Let's see if this
[40:48] will still happen. If we don't have that and we just try running this. See what happens. Okay. For some reason there was something weird happening with the end point yesterday
[41:07] and there's all these TLS stuff. Maybe there's a certificate that was out of date that was updated this morning. And so now everything's fixed. Who knows? That is nice though because
[41:23] that's a lot of extra stuff. And you had to like bring in an HTTPS library. So I'm curious that was an actual error or not. But anyway, so if we look at the output we were getting
[41:41] in this example, it is running this method and it just gives you the result. Whereas in this fetch example, we're getting back something more similar to what we got back
[42:01] from the curl command. It's just giving us back the JSON object. So if we wanted to modify that, I think we would want to do this. So if we do that, then we'll just get the straight
[42:34] up result part of the object instead of the whole thing. Now I'm going to leave that stuff in there but uncommented just in case that error comes
[42:58] up again. But we see right here now this is using node fetch instead of request. So Ryan, I would recommend changing that. So I can open a pull request to make some adjustments
[43:17] to the docs. I also would really recommend having steps of actually creating a project from scratch and then npm initting and maybe address the issue of require versus import.
[43:36] If you want to upgrade to using ESM, you'd want to do it kind of all at once. You wouldn't want some of the docs to be in ESM, some to be in node require syntax. That could be a
[43:50] huge issue. That's why I get why a lot of people will still have docs now that are still using require just because everything is using require. They have to rewrite their entire
[43:59] docs to get ESM in there. But ideally, we could get there. But I would say first update it to the more pressing concern is the deprecated require library that is being used, the deprecated
[44:18] request library. So this is the thing you'd want to change first. So I would probably open a PR but not use ESM node fetch but still use node fetch. And then update the example
[44:35] because, yeah, this is like this stuff right here. I'm like, this is where I get all confused because you have response and body. And it's like, this is all the fetch code. Obviously,
[44:55] it looks like this now. But obviously, there's a million ways to do fetch. Nicky T knows all about that. He knows back when it was called Ajax. Okay. So this is pretty much
[45:13] all working pretty well right now. So comma as a space automatically. But I think I do want to actually -- that's all good, right? I've done the same. So let's do -- let's do
[46:10] the next one. Okay. So let's do the next one. Okay. So let's do the next one. Okay. So let's do the next one. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. It's always good to just -- on a stream. Let's
[46:58] see. Yeah. Because I want to have -- let me open a PR. It's better if I can update a lot of examples all at once. All right. So we got get best block hash and then get block
[47:17] hash. Let's do that now. So for this one, there actually isn't a JavaScript example at all. So that's interesting. That would be even more useful for you if I wrote you
[47:57] examples you didn't even have. Did it work even though -- hold on. Why is it yelling at me? I'm sorry. The colors are off. But it looked like it actually worked. So yeah.
[48:44] So this is doing block hash for the given height. Fire around, Niki. For the given height. So what is the height? The block height? Blocks between them and the first dashboard. Okay.
[49:43] So it's how far away is the block from the first dash block. All right. That makes sense. So it's just counting up as each block. Okay. Yeah. Great. This is part of the thing with
[49:58] like blockchains all have their own names for all this stuff. So this is get block hash. So I want to have a -- okay. All right. And then -- okay. So I'm going to go ahead and
[50:39] now I can just kind of take most of what I have before and just change the data in the body. So let's do.
[50:53] Okay. Change this part.
[51:29] It's going to be params so this is where it could be interesting.
[51:51] Oh yeah, sorry, Nicky T's got his own stream. So, params.
[51:59] And then there we're going to have another object.
[52:18] Or, sometimes, I think that should be it.
[52:37] Let's see what happens. Wait, I've got to actually put it in the file.
[53:05] Okay, that's not surprised.
[53:31] Okay, so I've got something up here. And this is where
[53:38] GPT can come in handy. It helps me fix my junior JavaScript mistakes.
[53:45] There. And that takes a second answer.
[54:21] And now I know basically what the issue is. I just want to shortcut straight to the answer.
[54:27] It's close to the stuff. Let's see here.
[55:12] Okay, so, sweet. So it's going to just throw in JSON.
[55:19] Nice. This is going to be a try catch.
[55:26] It's incredible. And the server is definitely returning a JSON response.
[55:35] So, cool. Cool, cool, cool.
[55:51] Oh, my God. This is what I keep saying, like, some developers
[55:59] don't really see how chat GPT can be useful to them. Which I would first say you need to think a little more creatively about it.
[56:08] But for junior devs, or even people who are kind of like in the middle, I guess, like me, who just want to fix basic errors that they should know how to fix, but
[56:18] maybe either don't, like, quite have, like, some syntax on hand, or there's, like, something that they would have to then Google to look up to find a fix,
[56:26] like, one kind of small bug that, like, through experience, you'll be able to very easily do, just chat GPT can just give you the answer, which is really incredible.
[56:36] So, I should actually take that last example and do the same thing. Have it give me a nice try catch and all that.
[56:45] So, this was here. Oops, that's not what I wanted to do.
[57:02] Okay, actually, it's giving me a, it's still giving me an error. Must be an integer. Okay.
[57:09] That one I can fix on my own. So, that was because we had quotes around the one in height, which was parsing it into a string.
[57:30] Cool. Okay, cool.
[57:45] So, these are the examples that I'll be able to add to the docs because this is, you don't have a JavaScript example at all here. So, let's see how many are there on this page.
[58:02] Yeah. One, two, three.
[58:11] There are no recently differentiated. Cool.
[58:18] Okay, so, that can't be all the RPC methods, can it be? So, this is GRPC, which I sure don't know nothing about and will not mess around with at all probably.
[58:49] I just feel like there should be way more methods. Because here we have like get block, get transaction, stuff like that.
[58:58] So, maybe it is. There's more methods.
[59:01] This just isn't like, this isn't detailed in point of reference. So, here we go.
[59:07] That's the one I think. Nope, that's just JSON RPC.
[59:23] Hmm. Okay, well, either way, there's three examples on here.
[59:33] So, I will, this one I would recommend, I'll update that one. And then I'll add JavaScript examples here and here.
[59:45] So, let's go to the next one. We already got get block hash.
[60:01] Yep. So, get master node.
[60:07] Change that name, list diff for the provided block hashes. Cool.
[60:15] So, let's make sure my readme is in sync with all my files. Okay, cool.
[60:36] There we go. Let's see if this curl works.
[61:09] Looks like it did. Yeah.
[61:13] Cool. That's a big response.
[61:18] What's going on here? So, results.
[62:01] Interesting. Okay.
[62:05] So, React client libraries and stuff. Is that going to just be like an internal implementation change?
[62:20] Ultimately, it's not going to matter a whole lot for what I'm doing since eventually I'm going to end up in React. This is just me trying to understand how the endpoint works in a way that makes sense to me.
[62:34] I don't know how to just mess around with gRPC, but if I have to learn gRPC, then you can pay me to learn gRPC, I suppose. You pay me for building this stuff and I learn it in the process.
[63:13] Let's do this. In just a second.
[63:40] Okay. So, this one.
[63:46] Currently provides two types of endpoints. Okay.
[63:50] So, gSRPC exposes layer 1 information while gRPC support layer 2 as well as streaming of events. Okay.
[63:57] There you go. Remaining endpoints will be migrated to gRPC in future release.
[64:01] Interesting. So, these are the layer 1 endpoints.
[64:06] Like so. And these are the core gRPC services.
[64:15] Hello, hello. How is it going?
[64:21] So, then, these are happening here. So, you'll need to use the DAPI client or DAPI gRPC.
[64:41] So, I guess then my question is, what's the difference between JavaScript, DAPI client, and DAPI gRPC? Is this related to the JSON RPC?
[64:55] And does that mean this will be deprecated, too? Or is this good?
[65:00] Because if so, then this is what I should be using right now. If this is what's not going to be deprecated.
[65:10] Let me try doing this one, see what happens. So, this is get block by height.
[65:20] You only need dash SDK. Okay.
[65:24] So, I guess we just need more examples with the dash SDK. Because I want just something like this.
[65:34] So, I want a reference of all of the methods in the dash SDK. Dash JavaScript SDK.
[65:45] So, that was one that was here. So, let's see what's going on here.
[65:54] So, we got these guys. So, this is all the other stuff.
[66:05] Okay. So, I guess this is what's handling whether it's using the JSON RPC or the gRPC stuff.
[66:13] So, yeah. So, I guess my question is, is this stuff somewhere in here?
[66:39] Let's see. So, I know that I'm creating a wallet.
[67:14] So, let me just make sure I don't lose the thread here, though. These are all the examples that needed updating.
[67:26] And let's see. So, I have that one.
[67:31] So, what's going on here? So, this was a list diff for the provided block hashes.
[67:42] Got it. So, the curl request.
[67:47] This was the curl request itself. And we're specifying the base block hash and then the block hash we want to diff against.
[68:01] And then it's giving us the list here of transaction hash, confirmed hash, pubkey operator, voting address. Okay.
[68:21] Cool. Interesting.
[68:25] I'm going to be needed. Okay.
[68:28] So, I guess then my question is, is this going to be deprecated? Does it matter whether I update the examples or not?
[68:34] Like, deprecated in the next month, year, ten years? Like, yeah.
[68:42] I don't know. But it sounds like we want to just stick to the dash client here.
[68:49] So, let's get into how those are going to work. So, let's do this.
[69:03] What I like to do is create just a single -- initialize a single client and then export it and then import it. Because with this example here, we're seeing the whole thing in one file, which is nice.
[69:17] That's kind of what I would expect anyway. But, I mean, I want to have different files with different examples showing different SDK methods.
[69:28] And then you can avoid having to initialize a client each time for each script. So, here and then have this stuff.
[69:48] There's a couple things happening here that I want some notes on. So, this is just from the comments.
[69:57] So, setting new modic to null indicates you want a new wallet to be generated. And then setting offline mode to true indicates you don't want to sync the chain.
[70:10] Okay. And then we're going to have a wallet method.
[70:23] And this is basically this example here. And this is going to do a couple things as we have get wallet account, export wallet, and get unused address.
[70:44] So, let me see if I can find the TypeScript typings. So, this is all the stuff that we had when I was just in here.
[71:12] Scripts. Dash platform is currently available on the Dash testnet only.
[71:39] How long is that going to be the case? Because eventually you want to be able to work with main net roles.
[71:50] You're not really working with real money. Oh, this is using Wasm.
[71:55] Look at that. Okay.
[72:15] Back to the package. Might have been in there somewhere.
[72:42] So, it would be easier if I just cloned this down, but for now I'm just going to keep hopping around a bit just to see what's in here. Interesting.
[72:58] Okay. So, this would be like get contract.
[73:22] Interesting. Okay.
[73:24] So, if there's not currently just a reference of all of the JavaScript methods in the Dash SDK, that's the thing you really want. That there should be a page for somewhere.
[73:39] Because otherwise you kind of just have to go find examples and see what's available and then start pulling examples and make them work for your use case. More extensive documentation.
[73:54] Look at this. A different separate page entirely with important documentation on it.
[74:00] Great. Okay.
[74:02] So, this is probably where I should have started with, honestly. No syntax highlighting, so that is not super tight.
[74:10] I should move this thing to a Pentaki source site for you. Be quite a bit nicer.
[74:17] Okay. Yeah, this is -- wow, this is exactly where I should have been from the start.
[74:23] This has basically all the stuff I want. There's even a wallet library.
[74:30] So, that would be a question. Should I use the wallet library or not?
[74:35] Is the wallet library important? And what is -evo?
[74:38] Now, this is a whole other place now. I see a big deprecated word somewhere.
[74:44] Let's see. I have it archived as active development.
[74:50] Shifted to here. Okay.
[74:56] So, does that just mean that things like -- where was I? So, is there still a wallet library, but in -pay?
[75:15] Yeah, right. So -- does that mean everything got moved from that repository to the other?
[75:23] Or did they just start building new stuff in -pay? So...
[75:43] This is deprecated, it looks like. Okay, here we go.
[75:51] Great, great, great, great. So, we're still npm installing it from here, though.
[75:59] So, does that mean -- I want to do just dash.
[76:10] Okay, hold on. Where was the npm library?
[76:22] So... Let's do this.
[76:41] I guess we just want the npm. What is the name of the new npm location?
[77:11] If dash -- or is the idea that -evo stays on npm, but the github migrated off of it? I don't know.
[77:28] Okay. I'm just going to keep following the examples, then, and not worry about it too much.
[77:35] So, let's go back to here. So, with this now, we're going to have a lot more code examples, it looks like.
[77:59] SDK contains wallet. Okay, gotcha.
[78:02] Makes sense. So, thank you for being here and explaining things to me.
[78:10] I am a dash noob, still, and so I'm just kind of playing around, figuring out how all this stuff works. A whole lot of stuff in here.
[78:30] Let's take a look, I think just creating a wallet would be the thing to do. Let's see.
[78:38] Actually, let's just go through the top, see what we hit. Here's the quick start.
[78:54] Seeing example usage here. So, that's because we're here.
[79:18] I want to end up here, and I want to get to examples web, yep, and then web usage. So, that link to this link.
[79:39] Does this have a button to open a PR? Nope.
[79:47] I'll go, all patches failing. Cool, cool, cool.
[80:01] Okay, well, it looks like this is where I would open the PR. Note, patches, client.
[80:31] Happy client. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, here.
[80:42] And that's, well, that's off. Yep.
[81:09] Okay. Great.
[81:51] This example here they're showing you. It's just a single HTML page.
[81:56] That's kind of funny. I'll see if this works.
[82:05] We like examples like this, though, because you don't have to worry about all the build step stuff. You just throw in a script tag, and hopefully it works.
[82:29] Just going to console log some stuff, and we can run this with live server. My VS code, so all my extensions are not on right now.
[82:50] Go live. That should be this.
[82:59] Refuse to execute script, because its MIME type is not executable, and strict MIME type checking is enabled. Not yet.
[83:18] Not defined. It's not defined, so I'm not importing it.
[83:54] Yeah, yeah, I just want to see this, because the reason why I want to check is because the example is linked to this from the docs. So you want to either make sure it works, or -- yeah, exactly.
[84:11] So if it doesn't work on unpackage, then it shouldn't be in the docs as an example here. So this should just be removed, then, if that's the case.
[84:23] Anyway, so I probably shouldn't mess around with that, then. I'll leave that here just for now.
[84:33] Okay, so if we go back here. This is going to initialize the client.
[84:48] So that was what I had. I had a file.
[84:57] Right here, okay. Looks like -- right, yeah, because this is the DAPI client examples.
[85:17] Still a little bit confused about what's the difference between the DAPI client and not, and I'm not sure if I should be saying that "DAPI" or pronounce it some other way. So the SDK methods for interacting with all that stuff also provides direct access to the client methods.
[85:51] Yeah, interesting. Okay, so these were the -- this was one of the examples I was getting to.
[86:00] And that's the thing is that it requires a demo, so that's probably updated to just do this. So first off, I never checked whether this worked or not.
[86:41] Yeah, great, well, I'm glad that this is useful then, because I do enjoy doing this, but it can be, like, frustrating for people who want to see something actually get built, because it's just, like, seems like endless bike shedding, but mostly I just need to basically go through all the examples and then just try and run them, see whether they work or not, and then figure out which ones are broken, which ones aren't, which ones maybe work, but are using things that are kind of deprecated and shouldn't be. And then you can kind of get them all into a nice place.
[87:14] The thing is, though, is I feel like this whole site shouldn't really exist. This should all be contained within the dash platform.
[87:23] You should get as many things as you possibly can into this one, especially if it's coming -- you're coming to it from dash.org, because it just doesn't really make sense to have people hop off to this other one with, you know, syntax highlighting and stuff's, like, super deprecated. And then you're going to have to, like, kind of keep this up to date with the other stuff.
[87:42] So I would really recommend just getting rid of this entirely and moving everything you can into here. So let's see.
[87:55] So I wanted to actually try these examples in here. So let's just start with this one.
[88:07] I'm actually not going to mess around with -- I'm actually going to leave that semi-colon there. Let's see if this works.
[88:29] So this will be get best block hash. I'm going to mess around with the point.
[89:03] So it might be that, or it might be this. Or it might be that.
[89:31] Okay. That's going to be one of these four.
[89:38] Maybe one's going to work. So let's start with -- because I'm curious.
[89:46] It would probably be -- or maybe it would actually be that. So let's -- let's start with this one.
[90:17] Hash tabby. Okay.
[90:50] Let's see what happens. Maybe I haven't installed that.
[90:56] So before I start, maybe I'm installing stuff. Okay.
[91:14] That makes sense. That makes sense.
[91:18] I think I might need to just install this. Unless there's something about it.
[91:27] Ah, this is what I need to do. I need to do the dash.client.
[91:33] And then I can do these things, I think. So this says get.
[91:50] Or is -- this is .core. That's block hash.
[92:01] Classic dash, blockchain, and platform. Interesting.
[92:05] Okay. Okay.
[92:12] Gotcha. Okay.
[92:18] And so what I'm getting at is now -- so the dabby client stuff is in just this one dash package.
[92:26] But these examples are still using the old one. They're initializing the client this way.
[92:33] And it's using dabby client as well. Okay.
[92:39] So then let's just do this. Entropy value is not a function.
[93:10] Yeah, so I'm guessing this may be because this is the deprecated one. Okay.
[93:18] So let's try this. This is going to be get best block hash.
[93:34] Let's grab this whole thing. Okay.
[94:03] That's promising. And this is the type of thing I was having issues with last time.
[94:15] It was some TLS stuff. It looks like it still did it for us.
[94:19] Okay, cool. So we're getting the core status.
[94:28] Get status is here, okay. This is core.
[94:35] Get status. Okay, so first it console logs this.
[94:40] That's what's happening here. So that's what this is.
[94:48] That's get best block hash. Okay.
[94:50] I see. Let's -- okay.
[95:02] So what's in the status information? Looking at the chain.
[95:09] Got the master node. And then the network.
[95:13] Okay. I'm not as interested in that.
[95:17] I think I want to just return the best block hash. Just kind of do this.
[95:39] Okay, cool. That's a little simpler.
[95:48] I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to pull this. So I have a meeting in 20 minutes.
[96:15] So I'm going to want to hop off probably in 10. So I'm going to give me a little bit of time to get ready.
[96:33] Awesome. Okay.
[97:06] Okay. Cool.
[97:17] So, yeah. So really importing dash from dash with ESM.
[97:23] And then initializing the client like this. Then gives you access to the client methods here.
[97:29] So this is what you want. So all of this is all wrong.
[97:35] [Laughter] And this, if that's kind of the case throughout these examples,
[97:47] then it might make sense to just start rewriting these and bringing them in here. Kind of one by one.
[97:59] I can see why it might take a little while. There's probably examples for these ones, though.
[98:15] Okay. This is -- so this stuff.
[98:18] Okay. So the DAPI client.
[98:20] I think you need to get rid of DAPI client here. And then just have this SDK be the thing.
[98:24] This is what you want. And then here.
[98:36] Confirm with our docs. Yeah, okay.
[98:38] Cool. Great, great, great.
[98:42] Looks like there's like -- there's a lot of information in here, though. That is not anywhere else.
[98:49] And like information in docs form. Just things like showing you a lot of this stuff.
[98:57] So, yeah, that's kind of the challenge is -- is there a reference for that somewhere around here?
[99:08] Yeah, it doesn't look -- yeah. It's just like everything is all mixed up into everything.
[99:17] So it's really hard to tell what's what. Okay.
[99:22] Let me separate out these two other ones. So I want to have scripts just for each of these standalone ones using the
[99:31] DAPI client then. So this should be get best block hash.
[99:48] And it's working great. So that all goes away.
[100:01] Okay. It's not that.
[100:04] It's with -- kind of, yeah. Okay.
[100:14] Great. What I want to do is I want to break this off into the client.
[100:43] Okay. Okay.
[100:47] Okay. Okay.
[101:42] Okay. Let's move this up.
[102:07] And then I wanted the other examples here, so get block by height. Happy client.
[102:42] Okay. And then I can just grab all of this here now and change this.
[103:33] Get block by height. I probably haven't created it yet.
[103:51] Okay. That's one of the things that always challenges me doing this is I'll write
[103:56] something and it will read me and then run a command like I just wrote it in an actual file because I'm silly like that.
[104:08] Something's happening. Interesting.
[104:13] Interesting. So it's giving me a buffer.
[104:24] Best block hash buffer. Much more bytes.
[104:30] Don't think that's -- is that what I wanted? Huh.
[104:43] Not sure if that's coming in some format that I need to transform. But let's just try this one.
[104:55] And see what happens. Okay.
[105:02] This one. That one works.
[105:04] Cool. So that's just get block hash two string.
[105:07] Cool. Thank you.
[105:18] I need to hop off so that will be next time. Cool.
[105:25] Whoops. And then JSON.stringify it.
[105:56] All right. We're getting somewhere.
[105:58] But I need to hop off. Cool.
[106:00] Well, thank you. Not sure what your name is.
[106:05] But thank you so much for hanging out and for super useful help also. Let me stop screen sharing.
[106:14] And, yeah, so I think I'll be doing this around this time every week. And once I get through kind of checking out all the docs examples and
[106:22] orienting myself of where things are, then we'll start building things with actual, like, React front ends and stuff like that.
[106:31] But as you can see, there are a lot of things I was confused about in there that I didn't know and things that could probably be smoothed out
[106:38] if you have, like, kind of one getting started tutorial that very clearly walks you through these are the things you need, these are the things you
[106:45] should import and stuff like that. So that's probably what I'll end up creating before I get into the React
[106:52] stuff. But I'll probably be able to do most of that on the next stream.
[106:56] And Ryan, we'll chat -- I'll chat with you after this and just kind of, yeah, see what you thought and how it went and all that.
[107:04] So, yeah, I will catch you guys next week. [BLANK_AUDIO]

